(WIP) Mtopo27/size analysis docs (#15256)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/platforms/apple/guides/ios/size-analysis/insights.mdx

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python3
import json
import os
import subprocess

def minify(file_path: str) -> None:
    subprocess.run(["plutil", "-convert", "json", file_path], check=True)

    with open(file_path, "r", encoding="utf-8") as source:
        data = json.load(source)

    with open(file_path, "w", encoding="utf-8") as target:
        for key, value in data.items():
            target.write(f'"{key}" = "{value}";\n')

for root, _, files in os.walk(os.environ["BUILT_PRODUCTS_DIR"], followlinks=True):
    for filename in files:
        if filename.endswith(".strings"):
            path = os.path.join(root, filename)
            print(f"Minifying {path}")
            minify(path)
```

This script strips comments and blank lines after the files are generated, so keep the original annotated copies under version control for translators.

### Main binary export metadata

**What it is**: Highlights exported symbols inside your main app binary. The linker includes these identifiers for external consumers, but no other app links against your binary, so they only bloat the export trie.

**How to fix**: Maintain a minimal allowlist so only required entry points stay exported.

> Since Xcode 16 no longer injects `_main` automatically, avoid the old `-exported_symbols_list /dev/null` workaround (it strips `_main` and crashes on launch).

Reviewer: Not sure how this got in the old docs, doesn't seem right to me though

---
title: Insights
sidebar_order: 5250
description: See how Size Analysis surfaces trends for your iOS builds.
---

TODO: ADD SOME PICS

Size Analysis Insights point out how iOS app can reduce its size. They spot patterns like duplicate files, oversized media, or unneeded assets, and list exactly what to fix along with the estimated size savings.

## iOS Insights

> Below are a list of available insights for iOS builds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below are a list of available insights for iOS builds, followed by more details about each insight:
```

| [Localized Strings](#localized-strings)                     | Localized strings that can use a more efficient format.                                         |
| [Minify Localized Strings](#minify-localized-strings)       | Localized string files that contain removable whitespace and comments.                          |
| [Main Binary Export Metadata](#main-binary-export-metadata) | Binaries that include removable export tries.                                                   |
| [Hermes Debug Info (RN Only)](#hermes-debug-info-rn-only)   | Hermes bytecode files that include removable debug info.                                        |

### Strip Debug Symbols

**What it is**: Debug info and symbols are only used during development and should not be shipped to users.

**How to fix**: Strip symbols from release builds and instead use debug symbols in separate dSYM files for crash reporters.

<Alert type="warning">
  Stripping symbols before creating a dSYM breaks crash symbolication. Confirm
  your release build still produces and uploads dSYMs (or another crash reporter
  has them) before stripping.
</Alert>

> In Xcode ensure your release configuration sets the `Debug Information Format` build setting to `DWARF with dSYM`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Xcode, ensure your release configuration sets the `Debug Information Format` build setting to `DWARF with dSYM`.
```

    sips --resampleWidth 1024 /tmp/icon.png \
      -s format heic -s formatOptions 85 \
      --out "$output" >/dev/null 2>&1

    rm /tmp/icon.png

    if [ -f "$output" ]; then
        local saved=$(( ($(stat -f%z "$input") - $(stat -f%z "$output")) / 1024 ))
        echo "✅ Saved ${saved}KB → $output"
    else
        echo "❌ Optimization failed"
        return 1
    fi
}
```

Update the Info.plist alternate icon entry to point at the new `.heic` file.

#### Option: Keep PNG

```bash
#!/bin/bash
optimize_icon() {
    local input="$1"
    local output="$(basename "$input" | sed 's/\.[^.]*$//')_optimized.png"

    [ ! -f "$input" ] && echo "❌ File not found: $input" && return 1

    echo "🔄 Optimizing $(basename "$input")..."

    sips --resampleWidth 180 "$input" \
      --out /tmp/icon.png >/dev/null 2>&1 || return 1
    sips --resampleWidth 1024 /tmp/icon.png \
      --out "$output" >/dev/null 2>&1

    rm /tmp/icon.png

    if [ -f "$output" ]; then
        local saved=$(( ($(stat -f%z "$input") - $(stat -f%z "$output")) / 1024 ))
        echo "✅ Saved ${saved}KB → $output"
    else
        echo "❌ Optimization failed"
        return 1
    fi
}
```

### Loose Images

> **What it is**: Finds scaled @1x/@2x/@3x images stored outside of asset catalogs. This prevents app thinning from removing variants not needed for the user's device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**What it is**: Finds scaled @1x/@2x/@3x images stored outside of asset catalogs. App thinning will not remove these images, even when they are not needed for the user's device.
```

### Unnecessary Files

**What it is**: Files such as READMEs, docs, scripts, configs, and similar build leftovers do not need to be included in the app bundle.

**How to fix**: Drop these files from the Copy Bundle Resources phase or exclude them with `EXCLUDED_SOURCE_FILE_NAMES` before archiving.

### Large Videos

**What it is**: Video assets larger than 10 MB are not recommended to be bundled in your app. Often times videos are only shown to a subset of users and could instead be shown on-demand.

**How to fix**: host and stream the content instead of bundling it, or re-encode them with H.264 or HEVC at a lower bitrate or resolution.

### Localized Strings

**What it is**: Xcode localized strings files use a verbose dictionary format by default.

**How to fix**: Sentry's SmallStrings helper library is a more efficient method of encoding translations.

### Minify Localized Strings

**What it is**: Xcode localized strings files often include translator comments, whitespace, binary encodings, and other non-runtime text that can be safely stripped.

**How to fix**: Start with low-effort cleanup, then automate comment stripping if you still ship large payloads.

> #### Option 1: Keep the format lean

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Option 1: Keep the Format Lean
```

- Encode localized strings as plain text (`"key" = "value";`), not binary plists. Set **Strings File Output Encoding** (`STRINGS_FILE_OUTPUT_ENCODING`) to **UTF-8** in Xcode.
- Remove translator comments that ship with the bundle. They help during translation but take space in production. A typical comment looks like:

  ```text
  /* Title for the expired code alert. */
  "code_expired" = "Code Expired";
  ```

> #### Option 2: Strip comments automatically

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Option 2: Strip Comments Automatically
```

---
title: Insights
sidebar_order: 5250
description: See how Size Analysis surfaces trends for your iOS builds.
---

> Size Analysis Insights point out how opportunities to reduce your iOS app's size. They spot patterns like duplicate files, oversized media, or unneeded assets, and list exactly what to fix along with the estimated size savings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Size Analysis Insights point out opportunities to reduce your iOS app's size. They spot patterns like duplicate files, oversized media, or unneeded assets, and list exactly what to fix along with the estimated size savings.
```
